The filoviruses Marburg (MARV) and Ebola (EBOV) cause hemorrhagic fever in humans and non-human primates with case high fatality rates. MARV VP30 is known to be phosphorylated and to interact with nucleoprotein (NP), but its role in regulation of viral transcription is disputed. Here we analyzed phosphorylation of VP30 by mass spectrometry, which resulted in identification of multiple phosphorylated amino acids. Modeling full-length three-dimensional structure of VP30 and mapping the identified phosphorylation sites showed that all sites lie in disordered regions mostly in the N-terminal domain of the protein. Minigenome analysis of the identified phosphorylation sites demonstrated that phosphorylation at amino acid residues 46-53 inhibits transcription. To test the effect of VP30 phosphorylation on its interaction with other MARV proteins, co-immunoprecipitation analyses were performed. They demonstrated the involvement of VP30 phosphorylation in interaction with two other proteins of the MARV ribonucleoprotein complex, NP and VP35. To identify the role of protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) in the identified effects, a small molecule 1E7-03 targeting a non-catalytic site of the enzyme, which previously showed to increase EBOV VP30 phosphorylation, was used. Treatment of cells with 1E7-03 increased phosphorylation of VP30 at the cluster of phosphorylated amino acids Ser-46-Thr-53, reduced transcription of MARV minigenome, enhanced binding to NP and VP35 and dramatically reduced replication of infectious MARV particles. Thus MARV VP30 phosphorylation can be targeted for development of future antivirals such as PP1-targeting compounds.IMPORTANCE The largest outbreak of MARV occurred in Angola in 2004-2005 and caused 90% case fatality rate. There are no approved treatments available for MARV. Development of antivirals as therapeutics requires fundamental understanding of the viral life cycle. Because of the close similarity of MARV to another member of Filoviridae family, EBOV, it was assumed that the two viruses have similar mechanisms of regulation of transcription and replication. Here, characterization of the role of VP30 and its phosphorylation sites in transcription of MARV genome demonstrated differences compared to EBOV. The identified phosphorylation sites appeared to inhibit transcription, and appeared to be involved in interaction with both NP and VP35 ribonucleoproteins. A small molecule targeting PP1 inhibited transcription of MARV genome, effectively suppressing replication of the viral particles. These data demonstrate the possibility of development of antivirals based on compounds targeting PP1.