The Zaire ebolavirus (EBOV) glycoprotein (GP) is cleaved into two subunits (GP1 and GP2) that are both required for virus attachment and entry into cells. Sequence changes in the GP have been proposed to increase pathogenesis and to alter virus growth properties. Mutations in GP acquired during EBOV tissue culture passage have also been reported to change virus growth properties. Here, we report the isolation of six amino acid mutations in EBOV GP that spontaneously appeared during recovery and passage of an EBOV-Makona GP-pseudotyped vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV), two of which also occur during passage of EBOV clinical isolates in tissue culture. Each of the six mutations resulted in increased virus growth in monkey and human cell lines. All mutations are located in the GP2 fusion subunit and increase entry kinetics of EBOV virus-like particles (VLPs). The gain-of-entry function mapped to two mechanistic phenotypes. Mutations in heptad repeat 1 (HR1) decreased the requirement for cathepsin B activity for viral infection. Mutations directly within the fusion loop increased entry kinetics without altering the cathepsin B dependence. Several mutations in the fusion loop were substitutions of residues present in other ebolavirus glycoproteins, illustrating the evolutionary paths for maintaining an optimally functioning fusion loop under selection pressure.IMPORTANCEZaire ebolavirus (EBOV) is the causative agent of the highly lethal Ebola virus disease and poses a significant threat to the global health community. Approved antivirals against EBOV are lacking; however, promising therapies targeting the EBOV glycoprotein are being developed. Efficacy testing of these candidate therapeutics relies on EBOV laboratory stocks, which when grown in tissue culture may acquire mutations in the glycoprotein. These mutations can produce inaccurate results in therapeutic testing. Until recently, distinguishing between tissue culture mutations and naturally occurring polymorphisms in EBOV GP was difficult in the absence of consensus clinical GP sequences. Here, we utilize recombinant VSV (rVSV) pseudotyped with the consensus clinical EBOV Makona GP to identify several mutations that have emerged or have potential to emerge in EBOV GP during tissue culture passage. Identifying these mutations informs the EBOV research community as to which mutations may arise during preparation of laboratory virus stocks.