Presently, clinically approved adjuvants (such as aluminum salts) fail to induce cellular immune responses, which is crucial to defend against intracellular pathogens (including HIV, malaria, tuberculosis and Ebola) and cancer. However, Freund's complete adjuvant potently stimulates both humoral and cellular immune responses, accompanying by high toxicity and severe side reactions. Here in this work, a CpG-oligodeoxynucleotides (CpG-OND) crosslinked aminated β-glucan-Ovalbumin dual targeting nanoparticle (CpG-OND-AG-OVA) is prepared through a simple and mild ionic complexation method. The aminated β-glucan plays dual roles as antigen presenting cells (APCs) targeted carrier and immunopotentiator (targeting and activating dectin-1 on APCs). Meanwhile, CpG-OND also plays dual roles as ionic crosslinker and immunopotentiator (targeting and activating Toll-like receptor 9 in APCs). The adjuvant activity of the particles is evaluated through in vitro and in vivo experiments. The particles significantly enhance uptake and sustained proteolytic processing of antigens, and result in APCs maturation, inducing robust Th1 and Th2-type immune responses comparable to Freund's adjuvant without obvious toxicity. The potent adjuvant activity of the nanoparticles may originate from dual targeting synergistic effects between aminated β-glucan and CpG-OND. Accordingly, the dual targeting nanoparticles may be a promising vaccine adjuvant for inducing robust humoral and cellular immune responses against infectious diseases and cancers.An ideal adjuvant for subunit vaccine should act as both a carrier to enhance the uptake, sustained processing and cytosolic delivery of antigens, and an immunopotentiator to stimulate antigen presenting cells (APCs) for activation of naive T cells. Additionally, it should be easy to obtain and safe with negligible toxicity. Unfortunately, both synthetic and natural polymers that have been developed into antigen delivery system cannot completely fulfill the requirements. In the present study, the authors design nanoparticles with aminated β-glucan and CpG-oligodeoxynucleotides (CpG-OND) through a simple and mild method. β-Glucan (a dectin-1 and TLR2 targeted PAMP) and CpG-OND (a TLR9 targeted PAMP) are readily accessible. Aminated β-glucan plays dual roles in the nanoparticle as APCs targeted carrier and immunopotentiator. Meanwhile, CpG-OND also plays dual roles as crosslinker and APCs targeted immunopotentiator. By making use of synergistic effect of the dual targeting vaccine adjuvant with aminated β-glucan and CpG-OND, the nanoparticles induce robust antigen specific immune responses comparable to Freund's adjuvant without obvious toxicity.